SensorDocumentation.md, before:

# Sensor Documentation for iOS 

Participating in Google Summer of Code 2018, I like to believe that I helped an open source organization synchronize the sensors on the iOS mobile application with the ones on the Android platform, so that programs created with [Pocket Code](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.catrobat.catroid&hl=ro) can behave alike as much as possible on both operating systems.

# How I contributed
To make the long story shorter, here is what I did over my awesome summer: I checked how the sensors behave on Android and how they behaved on iOS. I noticed patterns and I wrote tests for the iOS sensors, knowing what values I should obtain. Afterwards, I wrote the conversion functions and I checked if the tests were paassing, making certain improvements whenever necessary.

1. **Date & time:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/965/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/965/files)</br> <br>
Sensors for the date (day, year, month) and time (hour, minute, second) were already synchronized because they depend on the phone settings, but the sensor _weekday_ needed some changes, because:
 + on iOS, Sunday is day 1 and Saturday is day 7
 + on Android, Sunday is day 7 and Monday is day 1

2. **Position X and Y:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/966/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/966/files)<br> <br>
These sensors refer to the (X, Y) position of an object on the screen, where (0,0) is right in the middle of the screen. Their values depend on the size of the screen and for both iOS and Android, the object can exit the screen (can be positioned somewhere outside of the screen).

    On Android, the position (0, 0) is the center of the screen, whereas on iOS, the implementation for the app objects imposes that (0, 0) be situated at the bottom left. To synchronize any point on the screen, it is enough to synchronize the bottom left so that it is situated in the middle, because the same function will shift all the other points. So how can a point (bottom left) be moved half to the right and half upwards (the middle of the screen). Exactly! All that is needed is to add to the coordinates half of the sizes of the screen, like this: ` f(x, y) = (x + width / 2, y + height / 2) `. The functios is correct because we have to move every point to the right and upwards, so this is why addition is needed (to the right, there are positive values, the same are upwards and the point was already situated at (0, 0)).  

3. **Background & Look numbers:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/967/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/967/files) <br> <br>
A game can have multiple backgrounds and an object can have more looks, which are stored in an array and identified with a number. Here I had to synchronize the values, because the first background/look number on Android was 1, while on iOS it was counted from 0. Additionally, I wrote tests and I made sure that the sensor for background number is only available for background images, whereas the sensor for look number is only available for sprite objects.

4. **Brightness:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/971/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/971/files) </br> <br>
The user can se the brightness of the background image or of an object. But the range of the sensors were different:
+ on iOS, brightness is between [-1, 1]
+ on Android it was between [0, 200]
+ both of them were ascending functions

    Here is the conversion I made: let's consider a function f(x) = y, where x is the the value on iOS, and y is the corresponding Android value. It is a function on 3 branches: 
+ if x < -1, then y will be 0 (minimum value)
+ if x > 1 then y will be 200 (maximum value)
+ for any x between -1 and 1, y will be equal to 100 * x + 100

    I also needed a function to convert from Android to iOS (i.e. to convert the value introduced by the user to the internal sensor range on iOS), which was, as expected, the inverse of f. 

5. **Transparency:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/975/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/975/files) <br> <br>
Transparency was similar to brightness, but the differences I found were:
+ on iOS, transparency was between [-1, 1]
+ on Android, transparency was between [0, 100]
+ on iOS, transparency was descending, whereas on Android it was ascending

    The conversion I made was: f(x) = y, where x is the iOS value, and y is the corresponding Android value
+ if x > 1, then y is 0 (minimum value)
+ if x < -1, then y is 100 (maximum value)
+ if x is between [-1, 1], then y will be 100 - 100 * x

    Needless to say, I also made use of the inverse of f.

6. **Compass:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/976/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/976/files) <br> <br>
This sensor is useful to show the cardinal points. The values shown were different as such:

| Position       | Android       | iOS  |
| ------------- | ------------- | -----|
| N | 0 | 0 |
| N - E | -45 | 45 |
| E | -90 | 90 |
| S - E | -135 | 135 |
| S | -180 | 180 |
| S - V | 135 | 225 |
| V | 90 | 270 |
| N - V | 45 | 315 |

 As you can notice, the values on Android are between (-180, 180], while on iOS they are between [0, 360). So, for values smaller or equal than 180, the conversion is the negative value, whereas for values greater than 180, the conversion is 360 - value.

7. **Inclination:** 
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/977/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/977/files) <br> <br>
These sensors were a little bit trickier. First of all, the axis X and Y were reversed on iOS than those on Android, so I had to be careful here. 

    + X inclination: it had a range of [-pi, pi] on iOS and [-180, 180] on Android. When tilting the phone to the right, the values were positive on Android and negative on iOS. When tilting the phone to the left, the values were negative on Android and positive on iOS. So the conversion I had to make was to reverse the sign and to convert from radians to degrees. 
    + Y inclination: it had a range of [-pi/2, pi/2] on iOS and [-180, 180] on Android. When tilting front/back, the signs matched on both operating system, so there was no sign conversion needed. However, the fact that iOS had a range of only 90 degrees while covering a movement of 180 degrees made it difficult to convert. Another factor appeared, wether or not the screen was (almost) facing up or (almost) facing down. I used a property called acceleration.z which was positive when the screen was facing downwards and negative when the screen was facing upwards. In the end, I converted from radians to degrees. You can checkout the code in the pull request. 

8. **Location:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/978/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/978/files) <br> <br>
Location (altitude, latitude, longitude) depends on the phone gps, so there was no conversion needed to be made. But there is another sensor, called location accuracy, where on Android it is 0 if accuracy is not available, but on iOS it has a negative value if it is not available. I synchronized them by comparing the value returned, and if it was smaller than 0, then I returned 0. Any other positive value means that the accuracy is good.

9. **Acceleration:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/979/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/979/files) <br> <br>
Acceleration was a difficult sensor to measure and to synchronize and probably the sensors are not completely accurate yet. It depends on the speed with which the user moves the phone. On the iOS documentation, it says that with every increase with 9.8 m/s^2, the sensor increases with a value of only 1. When I tested by hand, trying to move my hand in a certain direction with the same speed, the values on Android were much bigger (around 19-20 on Android, and 1.5-2.5 on iOS). I concluded that the iOS values should be multiplied with 9.8 so they could have the same scale as the Android ones. 

10. **Size:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/982/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/982/files) <br> <br>
The size of an object can be set by the user and modified any time. Ever since I tested the default values, I noticed that the objects had different sizes on the Android phone than on the iPhone, more precisely, the Android object was smaller. After trying other values and measuring the screenshots of the object size in photoshop, I concluded that the Android object is exactly 2.4 times smaller, which is the constant I used for converting the iOS sensor. Another aspect worth mentioning is that on Android, the values memorised were between 0 and very big ones, whereas on iOS, they 100 times smaller (1 on iOS meand 100 on Android, this is why I multiplied by 100). On iOS, the object could have a negative size and it showed it upside down, and of the correct size in absolute value. This 'feature' was not implemented in Android, so I had to remove it, by simply returning 0 is the value of the sensor was smaller than 0.

11. **Color:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/983/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/983/files) <br> <br>
On Android, the color sensor represents a rotation in degrees between 0 and 200, gradually moving from the original color of the object/background to other colors. For example, it could go like this: dark blue -> purple -> pink -> red -> orange -> yellow -> green -> turqoise -> light blue -> dark blue. It is a circular list and it can start at any base color. The same is on iOS, except that the iOS values were in radians, not in degrees. The iOS values could be both negative and positive, had no limit, but I tested and concluded that ca full circle is obtained with values from 0 to 2 * pi, hence I decided that the value of pi on iOS, corresponds to 100 on Android, and a value of 2 * pi on iOS corresponds to 200 on Android. 
    
    Another notable thing to say for the conversion is that Android has all its values between 0 and 200, this is why I had to reduce the iOS value using periodicity to 0 and 2 * pi. To do this, I first converted to Android degrees and then I exctracted the rest by division with 200, of course, while taking care of the sign of the iOS value. 

12. **Rotation:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/985/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/985/files)<br> <br>
Rotation is a sensor that keeps track of the direction to which an object on the screen points. On Android, it is a value between (-180, 180], in degrees. It starts from 90, when the object is with his head up, going to the right it will be 180, going to the left it will be 0, and with the head down, the object has a rotation of -90. 

    On iOS, first of all, the values were in radians, so I had to cover the conversion from radians to degrees. Secondly, just like the color sensor, any value could be set on the iOS sensor (not matter of the sign or how big it was). This is why I had to reduce every value to the first trigonometric circle [0, 360) by calculating the rest for division by 360. Additionally, when the object is with its head up, the iOS showed 0 degreed (whereas Android showed 90), so there was a difference of 90 to be taken into account to calibrate the sensors. Last but not least, after making sure that the values belong to the first trigonomtric circle and that the default value showed 90 degrees on both operating systems, I had to shift the iOS values from [0, 360) to (-180, 180] so they could properly match the ones on Android. 

13. **Layer**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/980/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/980/files)<br> <br>
Layer was a easy sensor to convert. It refers to the position of an object on the screen (in front of another element or behind it). The values were already synchronized (iOS didn't start from 0 here). The only difference was that the iOS had a layer of 0 for the background image, whereas Android saw it as -1 (not implemented). 

14. **Loudness:**
<br>You can check out the initial pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/989/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/989/files)<br> <br>
[And an improved pull request here.](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/997)
The iOS development kit does not have implemented a sensor that measures the level of noise, so I had to do it myself, which proved to be a difficult task. After many tries, the sensor is finally recording and measuring the external noise. 

    On Android, the loudness sensor is 0 if there is complete silence and it shows greater values when there is noise. (I measured values of around 100, but I did not scream very loudly at the device, for obvious reasons.) On iOS, a value of 0 means absolute noise and then, when there is noise, there are negative values. The bigger the value, the louder the noise (-2 is bigger than -5, for instance). 
    
    I tested the raw values on the iOS platform and when there was only very little background noise, it showed values between -35 and - 40, while on Androis it showed values between 0 and 2. Synchronizing these is a bit tricky. Luckily, I found a function that converted rawValue from iOS to values between [0, 1], which means that all I had to do was to multiply by 100 in order to get matching Android valued. The function is: `f(x) = 10 ^ (0.05 * rawValue)` . Come to think of it, if rawValue -> 0, then f(x) -> 10 ^ 0, which is 1 (which means a very loud noise, scaled to 100 for Android) and values such as -160 will result in an f(x) very small, towards 0. 

15. **Background & Look names:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/990/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/990/files) <br> <br>
No conversion was needed here, as these sensors simply return the name of a background or look (the string with which they are being identified by the users). Additionally, just like the number sensor, I wrote tests and I made sure that the sensor for background name is only available for background images, whereas the sensor for look name is only available for sprite objects.

16. **Arduino and Phiro Bricks**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/987/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/987/files) <br> <br>
Pocket Code allows the user to connect an Arduino board or Phiro robot via Bluetooth and to program them by using the bricks available in the application. For these sensors I had to test that they are not shown in the bricks section if the user did not enable their usage in the settings of the app. I wrote tests when they were enabled and disabled and checked to see if they are available for use or not. There was no conversion needed for the Arduino pins, because their set values already match those on Android. 

17. **Face detection**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [TODO]() <br> <br>

18. **Touch**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/996/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/996/files) <br> <br>
The touch sensors represented a group of four sensors: 
+ the sensor that shows if the screen is touched (1 = touched, 0 = not touched) (nothing to synchronize here)
+ the sensor which shows the X coordinates of the touch
+ the sensor which shows the Y coordinates of the touch
+ the sensor which counts the number of touches

In order to synchronize the touch counter sensor, I noticed that a single touch on iOS increased the value with two, not with just one. This being stated, I has to divide the value by 2 and to convert it to integer, because sometimes, for less than a second, the counter reached an odd number (and it would faintly show, for example, the 2.5th touch). 

As for touch coordinates, on Android, the (0, 0) position is in the middle of the screen, whereas on iOS, the top left corner represents the coordinates (0, 0) and the bottom right represents the coordinates (screenWidth, screenHeight) for any device. I made use of the already syncrhonized position sensors (number 2) and, since (0, 0) position is at the bottom left and (0, 0)) touch is at top left, I could conclude that touchX = positionX, but touchY = -positionY. In this manner, the sensors are behaving alike on both operating systems.  


19. **Math**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1000/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1000/files) <br> <br>
I had to make sure that the math functions (sin, cos, ln etc.) showed the same default value like on Android and that they also computed to the same value.

20. **String**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1001/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1001) <br> <br>
I had to make sure that the string functions (join, length and letter) showed the same default value like on Android and that they also computed to the same value.

21. **List**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [TODO]() <br> <br>
I had to make sure that the list functions (number_of_elements, element, contains) showed the same default value like on Android and that they also computed to the same value.

# Other things I did

Among my tasks, I had a few Objective C to Swift code conversions and refactoring. Here are the pull requests I made: 
[Formula Editor conversion](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/968/files) <br>
[Sensor Button conversion](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/969/files) <br> 
[Intern Formula Keyboard Adapter](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/970/files) <br> 
[New sensor protocol](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/992/files) <br> 
[Simplify sensor protocol](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/994/files) <br>
[Compute button continuous -TODO]() <br> 
[Swift conversion for future refactoring - TODO]() <br>

# What I learnt

 + Git (pull requests, merge conflicts, rebasing, I had plenty of unsolicited adventures with these)
 + Test Driven Development ([TDD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development))
 + To write a markup document (Am I doing a good job?)
 + To be creative: find ways to test the sensors and try to get a value as accurate as possible
 + Last, but not least:
 ```
for(i = 0; i < 1000; i++) {
    print("I will read the documentation...");
}
```

# Bonus

General advice for whoever is reading this: pay attention in math classes! You never know when a math function will help you sort things out. :wink:

Commit message:

Change todo to in development

SensorDocumentation.md, after:

# Sensor Documentation for iOS 

Participating in Google Summer of Code 2018, I like to believe that I helped an open source organization synchronize the sensors on the iOS mobile application with the ones on the Android platform, so that programs created with [Pocket Code](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.catrobat.catroid&hl=ro) can behave alike as much as possible on both operating systems.

# How I contributed
To make the long story shorter, here is what I did over my awesome summer: I checked how the sensors behave on Android and how they behaved on iOS. I noticed patterns and I wrote tests for the iOS sensors, knowing what values I should obtain. Afterwards, I wrote the conversion functions and I checked if the tests were paassing, making certain improvements whenever necessary.

1. **Date & time:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/965/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/965/files)</br> <br>
Sensors for the date (day, year, month) and time (hour, minute, second) were already synchronized because they depend on the phone settings, but the sensor _weekday_ needed some changes, because:
 + on iOS, Sunday is day 1 and Saturday is day 7
 + on Android, Sunday is day 7 and Monday is day 1

2. **Position X and Y:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/966/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/966/files)<br> <br>
These sensors refer to the (X, Y) position of an object on the screen, where (0,0) is right in the middle of the screen. Their values depend on the size of the screen and for both iOS and Android, the object can exit the screen (can be positioned somewhere outside of the screen).

    On Android, the position (0, 0) is the center of the screen, whereas on iOS, the implementation for the app objects imposes that (0, 0) be situated at the bottom left. To synchronize any point on the screen, it is enough to synchronize the bottom left so that it is situated in the middle, because the same function will shift all the other points. So how can a point (bottom left) be moved half to the right and half upwards (the middle of the screen). Exactly! All that is needed is to add to the coordinates half of the sizes of the screen, like this: ` f(x, y) = (x + width / 2, y + height / 2) `. The functios is correct because we have to move every point to the right and upwards, so this is why addition is needed (to the right, there are positive values, the same are upwards and the point was already situated at (0, 0)).  

3. **Background & Look numbers:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/967/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/967/files) <br> <br>
A game can have multiple backgrounds and an object can have more looks, which are stored in an array and identified with a number. Here I had to synchronize the values, because the first background/look number on Android was 1, while on iOS it was counted from 0. Additionally, I wrote tests and I made sure that the sensor for background number is only available for background images, whereas the sensor for look number is only available for sprite objects.

4. **Brightness:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/971/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/971/files) </br> <br>
The user can se the brightness of the background image or of an object. But the range of the sensors were different:
+ on iOS, brightness is between [-1, 1]
+ on Android it was between [0, 200]
+ both of them were ascending functions

    Here is the conversion I made: let's consider a function f(x) = y, where x is the the value on iOS, and y is the corresponding Android value. It is a function on 3 branches: 
+ if x < -1, then y will be 0 (minimum value)
+ if x > 1 then y will be 200 (maximum value)
+ for any x between -1 and 1, y will be equal to 100 * x + 100

    I also needed a function to convert from Android to iOS (i.e. to convert the value introduced by the user to the internal sensor range on iOS), which was, as expected, the inverse of f. 

5. **Transparency:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/975/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/975/files) <br> <br>
Transparency was similar to brightness, but the differences I found were:
+ on iOS, transparency was between [-1, 1]
+ on Android, transparency was between [0, 100]
+ on iOS, transparency was descending, whereas on Android it was ascending

    The conversion I made was: f(x) = y, where x is the iOS value, and y is the corresponding Android value
+ if x > 1, then y is 0 (minimum value)
+ if x < -1, then y is 100 (maximum value)
+ if x is between [-1, 1], then y will be 100 - 100 * x

    Needless to say, I also made use of the inverse of f.

6. **Compass:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/976/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/976/files) <br> <br>
This sensor is useful to show the cardinal points. The values shown were different as such:

| Position       | Android       | iOS  |
| ------------- | ------------- | -----|
| N | 0 | 0 |
| N - E | -45 | 45 |
| E | -90 | 90 |
| S - E | -135 | 135 |
| S | -180 | 180 |
| S - V | 135 | 225 |
| V | 90 | 270 |
| N - V | 45 | 315 |

 As you can notice, the values on Android are between (-180, 180], while on iOS they are between [0, 360). So, for values smaller or equal than 180, the conversion is the negative value, whereas for values greater than 180, the conversion is 360 - value.

7. **Inclination:** 
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/977/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/977/files) <br> <br>
These sensors were a little bit trickier. First of all, the axis X and Y were reversed on iOS than those on Android, so I had to be careful here. 

    + X inclination: it had a range of [-pi, pi] on iOS and [-180, 180] on Android. When tilting the phone to the right, the values were positive on Android and negative on iOS. When tilting the phone to the left, the values were negative on Android and positive on iOS. So the conversion I had to make was to reverse the sign and to convert from radians to degrees. 
    + Y inclination: it had a range of [-pi/2, pi/2] on iOS and [-180, 180] on Android. When tilting front/back, the signs matched on both operating system, so there was no sign conversion needed. However, the fact that iOS had a range of only 90 degrees while covering a movement of 180 degrees made it difficult to convert. Another factor appeared, wether or not the screen was (almost) facing up or (almost) facing down. I used a property called acceleration.z which was positive when the screen was facing downwards and negative when the screen was facing upwards. In the end, I converted from radians to degrees. You can checkout the code in the pull request. 

8. **Location:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/978/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/978/files) <br> <br>
Location (altitude, latitude, longitude) depends on the phone gps, so there was no conversion needed to be made. But there is another sensor, called location accuracy, where on Android it is 0 if accuracy is not available, but on iOS it has a negative value if it is not available. I synchronized them by comparing the value returned, and if it was smaller than 0, then I returned 0. Any other positive value means that the accuracy is good.

9. **Acceleration:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/979/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/979/files) <br> <br>
Acceleration was a difficult sensor to measure and to synchronize and probably the sensors are not completely accurate yet. It depends on the speed with which the user moves the phone. On the iOS documentation, it says that with every increase with 9.8 m/s^2, the sensor increases with a value of only 1. When I tested by hand, trying to move my hand in a certain direction with the same speed, the values on Android were much bigger (around 19-20 on Android, and 1.5-2.5 on iOS). I concluded that the iOS values should be multiplied with 9.8 so they could have the same scale as the Android ones. 

10. **Size:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/982/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/982/files) <br> <br>
The size of an object can be set by the user and modified any time. Ever since I tested the default values, I noticed that the objects had different sizes on the Android phone than on the iPhone, more precisely, the Android object was smaller. After trying other values and measuring the screenshots of the object size in photoshop, I concluded that the Android object is exactly 2.4 times smaller, which is the constant I used for converting the iOS sensor. Another aspect worth mentioning is that on Android, the values memorised were between 0 and very big ones, whereas on iOS, they 100 times smaller (1 on iOS meand 100 on Android, this is why I multiplied by 100). On iOS, the object could have a negative size and it showed it upside down, and of the correct size in absolute value. This 'feature' was not implemented in Android, so I had to remove it, by simply returning 0 is the value of the sensor was smaller than 0.

11. **Color:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/983/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/983/files) <br> <br>
On Android, the color sensor represents a rotation in degrees between 0 and 200, gradually moving from the original color of the object/background to other colors. For example, it could go like this: dark blue -> purple -> pink -> red -> orange -> yellow -> green -> turqoise -> light blue -> dark blue. It is a circular list and it can start at any base color. The same is on iOS, except that the iOS values were in radians, not in degrees. The iOS values could be both negative and positive, had no limit, but I tested and concluded that ca full circle is obtained with values from 0 to 2 * pi, hence I decided that the value of pi on iOS, corresponds to 100 on Android, and a value of 2 * pi on iOS corresponds to 200 on Android. 
    
    Another notable thing to say for the conversion is that Android has all its values between 0 and 200, this is why I had to reduce the iOS value using periodicity to 0 and 2 * pi. To do this, I first converted to Android degrees and then I exctracted the rest by division with 200, of course, while taking care of the sign of the iOS value. 

12. **Rotation:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/985/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/985/files)<br> <br>
Rotation is a sensor that keeps track of the direction to which an object on the screen points. On Android, it is a value between (-180, 180], in degrees. It starts from 90, when the object is with his head up, going to the right it will be 180, going to the left it will be 0, and with the head down, the object has a rotation of -90. 

    On iOS, first of all, the values were in radians, so I had to cover the conversion from radians to degrees. Secondly, just like the color sensor, any value could be set on the iOS sensor (not matter of the sign or how big it was). This is why I had to reduce every value to the first trigonometric circle [0, 360) by calculating the rest for division by 360. Additionally, when the object is with its head up, the iOS showed 0 degreed (whereas Android showed 90), so there was a difference of 90 to be taken into account to calibrate the sensors. Last but not least, after making sure that the values belong to the first trigonomtric circle and that the default value showed 90 degrees on both operating systems, I had to shift the iOS values from [0, 360) to (-180, 180] so they could properly match the ones on Android. 

13. **Layer**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/980/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/980/files)<br> <br>
Layer was a easy sensor to convert. It refers to the position of an object on the screen (in front of another element or behind it). The values were already synchronized (iOS didn't start from 0 here). The only difference was that the iOS had a layer of 0 for the background image, whereas Android saw it as -1 (not implemented). 

14. **Loudness:**
<br>You can check out the initial pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/989/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/989/files)<br> <br>
[And an improved pull request here.](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/997)
The iOS development kit does not have implemented a sensor that measures the level of noise, so I had to do it myself, which proved to be a difficult task. After many tries, the sensor is finally recording and measuring the external noise. 

    On Android, the loudness sensor is 0 if there is complete silence and it shows greater values when there is noise. (I measured values of around 100, but I did not scream very loudly at the device, for obvious reasons.) On iOS, a value of 0 means absolute noise and then, when there is noise, there are negative values. The bigger the value, the louder the noise (-2 is bigger than -5, for instance). 
    
    I tested the raw values on the iOS platform and when there was only very little background noise, it showed values between -35 and - 40, while on Androis it showed values between 0 and 2. Synchronizing these is a bit tricky. Luckily, I found a function that converted rawValue from iOS to values between [0, 1], which means that all I had to do was to multiply by 100 in order to get matching Android valued. The function is: `f(x) = 10 ^ (0.05 * rawValue)` . Come to think of it, if rawValue -> 0, then f(x) -> 10 ^ 0, which is 1 (which means a very loud noise, scaled to 100 for Android) and values such as -160 will result in an f(x) very small, towards 0. 

15. **Background & Look names:**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/990/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/990/files) <br> <br>
No conversion was needed here, as these sensors simply return the name of a background or look (the string with which they are being identified by the users). Additionally, just like the number sensor, I wrote tests and I made sure that the sensor for background name is only available for background images, whereas the sensor for look name is only available for sprite objects.

16. **Arduino and Phiro Bricks**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/987/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/987/files) <br> <br>
Pocket Code allows the user to connect an Arduino board or Phiro robot via Bluetooth and to program them by using the bricks available in the application. For these sensors I had to test that they are not shown in the bricks section if the user did not enable their usage in the settings of the app. I wrote tests when they were enabled and disabled and checked to see if they are available for use or not. There was no conversion needed for the Arduino pins, because their set values already match those on Android. 

17. **Face detection**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [In development]() <br> <br>

18. **Touch**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/996/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/996/files) <br> <br>
The touch sensors represented a group of four sensors: 
+ the sensor that shows if the screen is touched (1 = touched, 0 = not touched) (nothing to synchronize here)
+ the sensor which shows the X coordinates of the touch
+ the sensor which shows the Y coordinates of the touch
+ the sensor which counts the number of touches

In order to synchronize the touch counter sensor, I noticed that a single touch on iOS increased the value with two, not with just one. This being stated, I has to divide the value by 2 and to convert it to integer, because sometimes, for less than a second, the counter reached an odd number (and it would faintly show, for example, the 2.5th touch). 

As for touch coordinates, on Android, the (0, 0) position is in the middle of the screen, whereas on iOS, the top left corner represents the coordinates (0, 0) and the bottom right represents the coordinates (screenWidth, screenHeight) for any device. I made use of the already syncrhonized position sensors (number 2) and, since (0, 0) position is at the bottom left and (0, 0)) touch is at top left, I could conclude that touchX = positionX, but touchY = -positionY. In this manner, the sensors are behaving alike on both operating systems.  


19. **Math**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1000/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1000/files) <br> <br>
I had to make sure that the math functions (sin, cos, ln etc.) showed the same default value like on Android and that they also computed to the same value.

20. **String**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1001/files](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/1001) <br> <br>
I had to make sure that the string functions (join, length and letter) showed the same default value like on Android and that they also computed to the same value.

21. **List**
<br> You can check out the pull request here: [In development]() <br> <br>
I had to make sure that the list functions (number_of_elements, element, contains) showed the same default value like on Android and that they also computed to the same value.

# Other things I did

Among my tasks, I had a few Objective C to Swift code conversions and refactoring. Here are the pull requests I made: 
[Formula Editor conversion](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/968/files) <br>
[Sensor Button conversion](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/969/files) <br> 
[Intern Formula Keyboard Adapter](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/970/files) <br> 
[New sensor protocol](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/992/files) <br> 
[Simplify sensor protocol](https://github.com/Catrobat/Catty/pull/994/files) <br>
[Compute button continuous - In development]() <br> 
[Swift conversion for future refactoring - In development]() <br>

# What I learnt

 + Git (pull requests, merge conflicts, rebasing, I had plenty of unsolicited adventures with these)
 + Test Driven Development ([TDD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development))
 + To write a markup document (Am I doing a good job?)
 + To be creative: find ways to test the sensors and try to get a value as accurate as possible
 + Last, but not least:
 ```
for(i = 0; i < 1000; i++) {
    print("I will read the documentation...");
}
```

# Bonus

General advice for whoever is reading this: pay attention in math classes! You never know when a math function will help you sort things out. :wink:
